
Map Data:
   I acquired map data by exporting an XML file for Logan, Utah from OpenStreetMaps. This data 
   can be exported for any region simply by entering the boundary coordinates at 
   http://www.openstreetmap.org/export. 
   Prior to doing this, I added sidewalk data by editing the OpenStreetMaps public map.
   
   The XML file is parsed into a graph, using the following steps:
   1. Eliminate all edges that are not roads (rivers, hiking trails, etc.).
   2. Assign a danger score to each edge based on the existance or lack of a sidewalk.
   3. Eliminate all nodes that are not intersections (buildings, other landmarks).
   4. Split up any edges that have more than two nodes, removing any nodes that do not branch from current edge.
   
Search Engine:
   The search engine applied to the graph is a modification of the A Star search algorithm. It searches
   for the route with the most sidewalks along the distance supplied by the user, and returns near the 
   start node. It returns the optimal path in the form of a vector of coordinates.
   
      Heuristic:
      The heuristic is an error formula that tells the algorithm when to start heading back home:
         error = |targetDistance -(distance + distanceBack)|
      With this error formula, the algorithm will choose nodes that move away from the start node 
      until the halfway point is reached. After that point, it will choose nodes that move closer 
      to the beginning, thus creating a loop that results in the desired distance.
   
      Modifications of A Star:
      The input is a start point and distance rather than a start point and end point.
      The cost of an edge is the existance or lack of a sidewalk, rather than a distance.
      The search is finished when the distance is reached or when all edges have been explored.
   
   
Data Rendering:
   My data-rendering algorithm uses the Unfolding Maps library. To display the path returned by 
   the search engine, the algorithm iterates through the vector of coordinates and draws a straight 
   line from each location to the next on an OpenStreetMaps map. The coordinates of the start node 
   are used as the center of the map view. The user can manually zoom and move through the map.
   
   
   
   
